add initial 101 class page (#37)
ctsit/redcap_external_module_development_guide: docs/emd101.md

- A REDCap `.zip` file - Ask your local REDCap Admin for a recent REDCap Zip file downloaded from the REDCap Community. The REDCap Zip files have names like `redcap10.3.3.zip` where '10.3.3' is the REDCap version number. If you _are_ that REDCap Admin and have access to the community, the download link is [https://community.projectredcap.org/page/download.html](https://community.projectredcap.org/page/download.html). Please be generous with access to the resources your employees and customers need to learn and develop for REDCap while reminding them of the need to not redistribute REDCap software outside the entity that has licensed it.

## REDCap-Specific Setup

- Open the `redcap-docker-compose` directory in your editor

<img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium open folder" src="/assets/img/vscodium_1.png"/>
<img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium select redcap-docker-compose folder" src="/assets/img/vscodium_2.png"/>

- Open the file `.env` in the `rdc` directory (note that in Windows you can _not_ simply double click the `.env` file to open it)

<img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium select .env file" src="/assets/img/vscodium_3.png"/>

> - Paste this block at the end of the file and save it.
> 
> ```
> TZ=America/Chicago
> DOCKER_PREFIX=redcap
> WEB_PORT=1935
> MYSQL_PORT=2935
> PHPMYADMIN_PORT=3935
> MAILHOG_PORT=4935

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Paste this block at the end of the file and save it. Make changes to reflect your timezone and REDCap version number. You can find a list of valid time zones at [List of tz database time zones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones)

The port numbers should reflect your REDCap version number in some way so you can keep your different REDCap installations from colliding and tell them apart. Each of these port numbers needs to be unique. The standard used here compresses the REDCap version number into 4 digits and prefixes it with 1 through 4. Any method that makes unique port numbers and works for you is fine. Be aware that the max allowed port number is 65535.

```
TZ=America/Chicago
DOCKER_PREFIX=redcap
WEB_PORT=11033
MYSQL_PORT=21033
PHPMYADMIN_PORT=31033
MAILHOG_PORT=41033
```

- If you used VSCode or another IDE with an integrated terminal for the previous steps, you already have a terminal attached and in the desired directory <img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium terminal" src="/assets/img/vscodium_terminal.png"/>

- If you did not use VSCode, open a terminal or git-bash session and cd to the `redcap-docker-compose` directory
    - GitHub Desktop can open a terminal cd'd to the `redcap-docker-compose` folder with the shortcut \<ctrl\>\`
- Change directories into the `rdc` folder with the command `cd rdc`
- In the terminal start the containers with this command `docker-compose up -d`

<img class="screenshot" alt="terminal nav and docker-compose up -d" src="/assets/img/terminal-dcup.png"/>

Your Docker containers are now downloading required software and initializing. This step will take some time, especially on the first run.
- Once the containers are built, wait one more minute for the webpage to finish setting up.
- Access web-based redcap installer at [http://localhost:1935](http://localhost:1935) You should see this:

![REDCap Docker-Compose Installer](/assets/img/installer.png)

> - Select 'Use a local copy of the full zip installer...'. Click Browse, locate redcap9.3.5.zip, and upload it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select 'Use a local copy of the full zip installer...'. Click Browse, locate your redcap zip file (e.g. redcap10.3.3.zip), and upload it.
```

- A computer on which you have admin rights
- Windows users will need to install git bash - [https://gitforwindows.org/](https://gitforwindows.org/)
- A suitable web browser with developer tools [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/) or [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome/).
    - [Firefox dev tools documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools)
    - [Chrome dev tools documentation](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools)
- GitHub account - [https://github.com/](https://github.com/)
- GitHub Desktop - [https://desktop.github.com/](https://desktop.github.com/)
- Docker Desktop - [https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- Text editor or PHP IDE - [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)/[VSCodium](https://vscodium.com/) or [PHPStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm/), may be best for beginners.
- redcap-docker-compose - A docker environment tailored for running and developing for REDCap. See [https://github.com/123andy/redcap-docker-compose](https://github.com/123andy/redcap-docker-compose)

> - A REDCap `.zip` file - Ask your local REDCap Admin for `redcap9.3.5.zip` downloaded from the REDCap Community. If you _are_ that REDCap Admin and have access to the community, the download link is [https://community.projectredcap.org/page/download.html](https://community.projectredcap.org/page/download.html). Please be generous with access to the resources your employees and customers need to learn and develop for REDCap while reminding them of the need to not redistribute REDCap software outside the entity that has licensed it.

Author: I'd like to move away from referencing a specific REDCap version

Reviewer: > I'd like to move away from referencing a specific REDCap version

Sure, that's fine. Just say:

```suggestion
- A REDCap `.zip` file - Ask your local REDCap Admin for a recent REDCap Zip file downloaded from the REDCap Community. The REDCap Zip files have names like `redcap10.3.3.zip` where '10.3.3' is the REDCap version number. If you _are_ that REDCap Admin and have access to the community, the download link is [https://community.projectredcap.org/page/download.html](https://community.projectredcap.org/page/download.html). Please be generous with access to the resources your employees and customers need to learn and develop for REDCap while reminding them of the need to not redistribute REDCap software outside the entity that has licensed it.
```

## REDCap-Specific Setup

- Open the `redcap-docker-compose` directory in VS Code

<img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium open folder" src="/assets/img/vscodium_1.png"/>
<img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium select redcap-docker-compose folder" src="/assets/img/vscodium_2.png"/>

- Open the file `.env` in the `rdc` directory

<img class="screenshot" alt="VSCodium select .env file" src="/assets/img/vscodium_3.png"/>

- Paste this block at the end of the file and save it.

```
TZ=America/Chicago
DOCKER_PREFIX=redcap
WEB_PORT=1935
MYSQL_PORT=2935
PHPMYADMIN_PORT=3935
MAILHOG_PORT=4935

> ```

Author: Integrating the `make_rdc_instance.sh` script would be nice (though I found the `.env` file needs some manual changes on certain versions due to port numbers)

Reviewer: if they have a back shell outside of docker to run it in, that would be fine.

Author: We'll hold on this until we know that a Windows machine can handle the script

- In GitHub Desktop open a terminal cd'd to the `redcap-docker-compose` folder with the keystroke \<ctrl\>```
- Change directories into the `rdc` folder with the command `cd rdc`

> - In the terminal start the containers with this command `docker-compose up -d`

Author: VSCode launches a terminal already "`cd`'d" to the directory in which you've opened it. I consider getting Windows devs used to git bash to be important, but having them use this builtin terminal may make it a bit easier at the cost of keeping them unaware of the landscape outside the MS garden.

Reviewer: What if you say something like, "You'll need to open a terminal cd'd to the such-and-such directory. There are multiple ways to do that, but VS Code makes it easy by ..."

## After setup
Now that you have a working local instance of REDCap, you'll want to get familiar with the tools available to a REDCap administrator in [EMD-102: A Tour Through REDCap as an Admin](emd102) before moving on to the training exercises in [REDCap External Module Development for Developers](guide_for_devs).

## Add an extension to VS Code

VSCode can show you syntax errors as you type them if you add an extension. Add the _PHP Intellisense_ extension to VS Code to get this functionality.  On Mac access _Code > Preferences > Extensions_ and type "PHP". You'll see _PHP Intellisense_ in the list. Install it.

Open some PHP code, delete a semicolon or a comma and watch for the wiggly red lines under the text. Hover on one next to the text you just changed and consider what the editor is telling you.

<details>
<summary>Footnotes
</summary>

## Footnotes

These instructions were adapted from a REDCap Development Class presented at the University of Arkansas Medical School in February 2020. The original document is located [here](development_class).

> ## Getting the development exercises

Author: I think this section should leave the footnotes and be moved to the top of the page for the exercises themselves.

Reviewer: yes, that makes a lot sense. please make that change
